Section2
============================================================

Generated via Migration Utility May 2014

Definitions.

2.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—

( 1 ) "accountant" shall have the meaning assigned to it in section 515(3)( b ) ;
( 2 ) "Additional Commissioner" means a person appointed to be an Additional Commissio…
( 3 ) "Additional Director" means a person appointed to be an Additional Director of I…
( 4 ) "advance tax" means the advance tax payable as per Chapter XIX-C;
( 5 ) "agricultural income" means—

( a ) any rent or revenue derived from a land which is situated in India and is used f…
( b ) any income derived from such land by—

( i ) agriculture; or
( ii ) the performance by a cultivator or receiver of rent-in-kind of any process ordin…
( iii ) the sale by a cultivator or receiver of rent-in-kind of the produce raised or re…

( c ) any income derived from any building owned and occupied by the receiver of the r…

( i ) is on or in the immediate vicinity of such land and that land is assessed to lan…
( ii ) is required as a dwelling house, or as a store-house, or other out-building, by …

( d ) any income derived from saplings or seedlings grown in a nursery,
but shall not include—

( i ) the income derived from any building or land referred to in sub-clause ( c ) ari…
( ii ) any income arising from the transfer of any land referred to in clause ( 22 )( i…

( 6 ) "amalgamation", in relation to companies, means the merger of one or more compan…

( a ) all the property of the amalgamating company or companies immediately before the…
( b ) all the liabilities of the amalgamating company or companies immediately before …
( c ) the shareholders holding not less than three-fourths in value of the shares in t…

otherwise than as a result of the acquisition of the property of one company by …
( 7 ) "annual value", in relation to any property, means its annual value as determine…
( 8 ) "Appellate Tribunal" means the Appellate Tribunal constituted under section 361 …
( 9 ) "approved gratuity fund" means a gratuity fund, which is approved and continues …
( 10 ) "approved superannuation fund" means a superannuation fund or any part of a supe…
( 11 ) "assessee" means a person by whom any tax or any other sum of money is payable u…

( a ) every person in respect of whom any proceeding under this Act has been taken—

( i ) for the assessment of his income or of the loss sustained by him or refund due t…
( ii ) for the assessment of the income of any other person in respect of which he is a…

( b ) every person who is deemed to be an assessee under this Act;
( c ) every person who is deemed to be an assessee in default under this Act;

( 12 ) "Assessing Officer" means—

( a ) the Assistant Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner or Assistant Director or Deput…
( b ) the Additional Commissioner or Additional Director or Joint Commissioner or Join…

( 13 ) "assessment" includes reassessment and recomputation;
( 14 ) "Assistant Commissioner" means a person appointed to be an Assistant Commissione…
( 15 ) "Assistant Director" means a person appointed to be an Assistant Director of Inc…
( 16 ) "average rate of income-tax" means the rate arrived at by dividing the amount of…
( 17 ) "block of assets" means a group of assets falling within a class of assets compr…

( a ) tangible assets, being buildings, machinery, plant or furniture;
( b ) intangible assets, being know-how, patents, copyrights, trade-marks, licences, f…

in respect of which the same percentage of depreciation is prescribed;
( 18 ) "Board" means the Central Board of Direct Taxes constituted under the Central Bo…
( 19 ) "books or books of account" includes ledgers, day-books, cash books, account-boo…

( a ) in written form; or
( b ) in electronic or any digital form, or on cloud based storage, or on any electrom…
( c ) as print-outs of data stored in electronic or digital form or on storage devices…

( 20 ) "business" includes any trade, commerce or manufacture or any adventure or conce…
( 21 ) "business trust" means a trust registered as—

( a ) an Infrastructure Investment Trust under the Securities and Exchange Board of In…
( b ) a Real Estate Investment Trust under the Securities and Exchange Board of India …

( 22 ) "capital asset" means—

( a ) property of any kind held by an assessee, whether or not connected with his busi…
( b ) any securities held by—

( i ) a Foreign Institutional Investor which has invested in such securities in accord…
( ii ) an investment fund specified in section 224(10)( a ) which has invested such sec…

( c ) any unit linked insurance policy to which exemption under Schedule II (Table: Sl…
but does not include—

( i ) any stock-in-trade, other than the securities referred to in sub-clause ( b ), c…
( ii ) personal effects;
( iii ) agricultural land in India, not being a land situated—

( A ) in any area comprised within the jurisdiction of a municipality (whether known a…
( B ) in any area within the distance as specified in column C of the following Table,…

TABLE

|     | Sl. No. | Population of municipality or cantonment board | Within distance, measured aerially, from local limits of any municipality or can… |
|-----|---------|------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|     | A       | B                                              | C                                                                                 |
|     | 1.      | More than 10000 and upto 100000.               | Two kilometres.                                                                   |
|     | 2.      | More than 100000 and upto 1000000.             | Six kilometres.                                                                   |
|     | 3.      | More than 1000000.                             | Eight kilometres;                                                                 |

( iv ) Gold Deposit Bonds issued under the Gold Deposit Scheme, 1999 or deposit certifi…
where,—

( A ) "Foreign Institutional Investor" shall have the meaning assigned to it in sectio…
( B ) "personal effects" means any movable property (including wearing apparel and fur…

( I ) jewellery, which includes—

( a ) ornaments made of gold, silver, platinum, or any other precious metal or any all…
( b ) precious or semi-precious stones, whether or not set in any furniture, utensil o…

( II ) archaeological collections; or
( III ) drawings; or
( IV ) paintings; or
( V ) sculptures; or
( VI ) any work of art;

( C ) "population" shall mean the population according to the last preceding census of…
( D ) "property" includes any rights in or in relation to an Indian company, including…
( E ) "securities" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 2( h ) of …

( 23 ) "charitable purpose" includes—

( a ) relief of the poor;
( b ) education;
( c ) yoga;
( d ) medical relief;
( e ) preservation of environment (including watersheds, forests and wildlife);
( f ) preservation of monuments or places or objects of artistic or historic interest;
( g ) the advancement of any other object of general public utility;

( 24 ) "Chief Commissioner" means a person appointed to be a Chief Commissioner of Inco…
( 25 ) "child", in relation to an individual, includes a step-child and an adopted chil…
( 26 ) "Commissioner" means a person appointed to be a Commissioner of Income-tax or a …
( 27 ) "Commissioner (Appeals)" means a person appointed to be a Commissioner of Income…
( 28 ) "company" means—

( a ) any Indian company; or
( b ) any body corporate incorporated by or under the laws of a country outside India;…
( c ) any institution, association or body which is or was assessable or was assessed …
( d ) any institution, association or body, whether incorporated or not and whether In…

( 29 ) "company in which the public are substantially interested" means—

( a ) a company owned by the Government or the Reserve Bank of India or in which at le…
( b ) a company which is registered under section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of …
( c ) a company having no share capital and if, having regard to its objects, the natu…
( d ) a mutual benefit finance company, that is to say, a company which carries on, as…
( e ) a company, wherein shares (excluding those entitled to a fixed rate of dividend,…
( f ) a company which is not a private company as defined in the Companies Act, 2013 (…

( i ) shares in the company (not being shares entitled to a fixed rate of dividend, wi…
( ii ) shares in the company (not being those entitled to a fixed rate of dividend, wit…

( A ) the Government; or
( B ) a corporation established by a Central Act or State Act or Provincial Act; or
( C ) any company to which this clause applies or any subsidiary company of such compa…

so, however, that in respect of an Indian company whose business consists mainly…

( 30 ) "convertible foreign exchange" means foreign exchange which is treated by the Re…
( 31 ) "co-operative bank" shall have the same meaning as specified in Part V of the Ba…
1 [ ( 32 ) "co-operative society" means a co-operative society registered under the Co-oper…
( 33 ) "currency" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 2( h ) of th…
( 34 ) "demerged company" means the company whose undertaking is transferred, pursuant …
( 35 ) "demerger", in relation to companies, means the transfer, pursuant to a scheme o…

( a ) all the property of the undertaking, being transferred by the demerged company, …
( b ) all the liabilities relatable to the undertaking, being transferred by the demer…
( c ) the property and the liabilities of the undertaking or undertakings being transf…
( d ) the resulting company issues, in consideration of the demerger, its shares to th…
( e ) the shareholders holding not less than three-fourths in value of the shares in t…
( f ) the transfer of the undertaking is on a going concern basis; and
( g ) the demerger is as per the conditions, if any, notified under section 116(7) by …

where,—

( i ) "undertaking" shall include any part of an undertaking, or a unit or division of…
( ii ) "liabilities relatable to the undertaking", referred to in sub-clause ( b ), sha…

( A ) the liabilities which arise out of the activities or operations of the undertaki…
( B ) the specific loans or borrowings (including debentures) raised, incurred and uti…
( C ) the amount "N", being the amount of general or multipurpose borrowings of the un…

where,—

K = the amount of general or multipurpose borrowings of the demerged company;
L = the value of the assets transferred in a demerger; and
M = the total value of the assets of such demerged company immediately before th…

( iii ) any change in the value of assets consequent to their revaluation shall be ignor…
( iv ) the splitting up or the reconstruction of any authority or a body constituted or…
( v ) the reconstruction or splitting up of a company, which ceased to be a public sec…
( vi ) the reconstruction or splitting up of a public sector company into separate comp…

( A ) is a public sector company on the appointed day indicated in such scheme approve…
( B ) fulfils such other conditions as the Central Government may, by notification, sp…

( 36 ) "Deputy Commissioner" means a person appointed to be a Deputy Commissioner of In…
( 37 ) "Deputy Director" means a person appointed to be a Deputy Director of Income-tax…
( 38 ) "director" and "manager", in relation to a company, shall have the same meanings…
( 39 ) "Director General or Director" means a person appointed to be a Director General…
( 40 ) "dividend" includes—

( a ) any distribution by a company of accumulated profits, whether capitalised or not…
( b ) any distribution to its shareholders by a company of debentures, debenture-stock…
( c ) any distribution made to the shareholders of a company on its liquidation, to th…
( d ) any distribution to its shareholders by a company on the reduction of its capita…
( e ) any payment by a company, not being a company in which the public are substantia…

( i ) as an advance or loan to a shareholder, being a person who is the beneficial own…
( ii ) as an advance or loan to any concern in which such shareholder is a member or a …
( iii ) made on behalf, or for the individual benefit, of any such shareholder,

to the extent to which the company in either case possesses accumulated profits;
( f ) 2 [ *** ]
but does not include—

( i ) a distribution made under sub-clause ( c ) or ( d ) in respect of any share issu…
( ii ) any advance or loan made to a shareholder or the said concern by a company in th…
( iii ) any dividend paid by a company which is set off by the company against the whole…
( iv ) any distribution of shares pursuant to a demerger by the resulting company to th…
3 [ ( v ) any advance or loan between two group entities, where,—

( A ) one of the group entities is a "Finance Company" or a "Finance Unit";
( B ) the other group entity to the transaction is located in a country or territory o…
( C ) the parent entity or the principal entity of such group is listed on the stock e…

for the purposes of items ( B ) and ( C ), the country or territory outside Indi…

where,—

( A ) "accumulated profits" for the purposes of—

( I ) sub-clauses ( a ), ( b ), ( d ) and ( e ), shall include all profits of the comp…
( II ) sub-clause ( c ), shall include all profits of the company up to the date of liq…

( B ) in respect of an amalgamated company, the accumulated profits, whether capitalis…
( C ) "concern" means a Hindu undivided family or a firm or an association of persons …
( D ) a person shall be deemed to have a substantial interest in a concern, other than…
( E ) for the purposes of sub-clause ( v ),—

( I ) "Finance Company" and "Finance Unit" shall have the same meaning as respectively…
3a [ ( II ) "group entity" shall have the same meaning as assigned to the expression "group …
( III ) "parent entity" or "principal entity" in relation to one or more other group ent…

( a ) exercises or controls more than one-half of the total voting power either at its…
( b ) controls the composition of the Board of Directors; ]

( 41 ) "document" includes an electronic record as defined in section 2(1)( t ) of the …
( 42 ) "domestic company" means—

( i ) an Indian company; or
( ii ) any other company which has made the prescribed arrangements within India for th…

( 43 ) "electoral trust" means a trust so approved by the Board as per the scheme made …
( 44 ) "fair market value", in relation to a capital asset, means—

( a ) the price that the capital asset would ordinarily fetch on sale in the open mark…
( b ) where the price referred to in sub-clause ( a ) is not ascertainable, such price…

( 45 ) "firm" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 4 of the Indian …
( 46 ) "foreign company" means a company which is not a domestic company;
( 47 ) "foreign currency" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 2( m…
( 48 ) "hearing" includes communication of data and documents through electronic mode;
( 49 ) "income" includes—

( a ) profits and gains;
( b ) dividend;
( c ) voluntary contributions received by—

( i ) a registered non-profit organisation; or
( ii ) an association referred to in Schedule III (Table: Sl. No. 23); or
( iii ) any University or other educational institution or any hospital or other institu…
( iv ) an electoral trust;

( d ) the value of any perquisite or profit in lieu of salary taxable under sections 1…
( e ) any special allowance or benefit, other than perquisite included under sub-claus…
( f ) any allowance granted to the assessee either to meet his personal expenses at th…
( g ) the value of any benefit or perquisite, whether convertible into money or not, o…
( h ) the value of any benefit or perquisite, whether convertible into money or not, o…
( i ) any sum chargeable to income-tax under—

( A ) section 26(2)( b ) or ( c ) or ( d ) or section 38 or 95 ;
( B ) section 26(2)( e ) or ( g );

( j ) the value of any benefit or perquisite taxable under section 26(2)( f ) ;
( k ) any capital gains chargeable under section 67 ;
( l ) the profits and gains of any business of insurance carried on by a mutual insura…
( m ) the profits and gains of any business of banking (including providing credit fac…
( n ) any winnings from lotteries, crossword puzzles, races including horse races, car…
( o ) any sum received by the assessee from his employees as contributions to any prov…
( p ) any sum received under a Keyman insurance policy including the sum allocated by …
( q ) any sum referred to in section 26(2)( h ) ;
( r ) the fair market value of inventory referred to in section 26(2)( j ) ;
( s ) any sum referred to in section 92(2)( k ) or ( l );
( t ) any sum of money referred to in section 92(2)( h ) ;
( u ) any sum of money or value of property referred to in section 92(2)( m ) ;
( v ) any compensation or other payment referred to in section 92(2)( j ) ;
( w ) assistance in the form of a subsidy or grant or cash incentive or duty drawback …

( i ) the subsidy or grant or reimbursement which is taken into account for determinat…
( ii ) the subsidy or grant by the Central Government for the purpose of the corpus of …

where,—

( A ) "card game and other game of any sort" includes any game show, an entertainment …
( B ) "Keyman insurance policy" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Schedule II (…
( C ) "lottery" includes winnings from prizes awarded to any person by draw of lots or…

( 50 ) "Income Computation and Disclosure Standards" means such standards as may be not…
( 51 ) "Income-tax Officer" means a person appointed to be an Income-tax Officer under …
( 52 ) "India" means the territory of India as referred to in article 1 of the Constitu…
( 53 ) "Indian company" means a company formed and registered under the Companies Act, …

( a ) company formed and registered under any law relating to companies formerly or cu…
( b ) corporation established by or under a Central Act or State Act or Provincial Act…
( c ) institution or association or body which is declared by the Board to be a compan…

the registered or principal office of which is in India;
( 54 ) "Indian currency" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 2( q …
( 55 ) "infrastructure capital company" means a company which makes investments by acqu…

( a ) any enterprise or undertaking wholly engaged in the business referred to in sect…
( b ) an undertaking developing and building—

( i ) a housing project referred to in section 80-IB(10) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (…
( ii ) a project for constructing a hotel of not less than three star category as class…
( iii ) a project for constructing a hospital with at least one hundred beds for patient…

( 56 ) "infrastructure capital fund" means a fund operating under a trust deed register…
( 57 ) "Inspector of Income-tax" means a person appointed to be an Inspector of Income-…
( 58 ) "insurer" means an insurer, being an Indian insurance company, as defined under …
( 59 ) "interest" means interest payable in any manner for moneys borrowed or debt incu…
( 60 ) "interest on securities" means—

( a ) interest on any security of the Central Government or a State Government;
( b ) interest on debentures or other securities for money issued by or on behalf of a…

( 61 ) "International Financial Services Centre" shall have the same meaning as assigne…
( 62 ) "Joint Commissioner" means a person appointed to be a Joint Commissioner of Inco…
( 63 ) "Joint Commissioner (Appeals)" means a person appointed to be a Joint Commission…
( 64 ) "Joint Director" means a person appointed to be a Joint Director of Income-tax o…
( 65 ) "legal representative" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section …
( 66 ) "liable to tax", in relation to a person and with reference to a country, means …
( 67 ) "long-term capital asset" means a capital asset which is not a short-term capita…
( 68 ) "long-term capital gain" means capital gains arising from the transfer of a long…
( 69 ) "manufacture", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means a …

( a ) resulting in transformation of the object or article or thing into a new and dis…
( b ) bringing into existence of a new and distinct object or article or thing with a …

( 70 ) "maximum marginal rate" means the rate of income-tax (including surcharge on inc…
( 71 ) "non-banking financial company" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in…
( 72 ) "non-resident" means a person who is not a "resident", and for the purposes of s…
( 73 ) "notification" means a notification published in the Official Gazette and the ex…
( 74 ) "partner" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 4 of the Indi…

( a ) any person who, being a minor, has been admitted to the benefits of partnership;…
( b ) a partner of a limited liability partnership as defined in section 2(1)( q ) of …

( 75 ) "partnership" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 4 of the …
( 76 ) "Permanent Account Number (PAN)" means a unique number consisting of ten alphanu…
( 77 ) "person" includes—

( a ) an individual;
( b ) a Hindu undivided family;
( c ) a company;
( d ) a firm;
( e ) an association of persons or a body of individuals, whether incorporated or not;
( f ) a local authority; and
( g ) every artificial juridical person, not falling within any of the preceding sub-c…

whether or not such an association of persons or a body of individuals or a loca…
( 78 ) "person of Indian origin" means an individual who or either of his parents or an…
( 79 ) "person who has a substantial interest in the company", in relation to a company…
( 80 ) "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
( 81 ) "Principal Chief Commissioner" means a person appointed to be a Principal Chief …
( 82 ) "Principal Commissioner" means a person appointed to be a Principal Commissioner…
( 83 ) "Principal Director" means a person appointed to be a Principal Director of Inco…
( 84 ) "Principal Director General" means a person appointed to be a Principal Director…
( 85 ) "principal officer", with reference to a local authority or a company or any oth…

( a ) the secretary, treasurer, manager or agent of the authority, company, associatio…
( b ) any person connected with the management or administration of the local authorit…

( 86 ) "profession" includes vocation;
( 87 ) "public sector bank" means the State Bank of India constituted under the State B…
( 88 ) "public sector company" means any corporation established by or under any Centra…
( 89 ) "public servant" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 2( 28 …
( 90 ) "rate or rates in force" or "rates in force", in relation to a tax year, for the…

( a ) ( i ) computing the income-tax chargeable under section 316(5) or 317(2) or 319 …

( ii ) deducting income-tax under section 392(1) to (6) from income chargeable u…
( iii ) computing the advance tax payable under Chapter XIX-C in a case not fall…
( iv ) deducting tax under section 393(1) [Table: Sl. No. 1( i )], [Table: Sl. N…
means the rate or rates of income-tax specified in this behalf in the Finance Ac…
( b ) computing the advance tax payable under Chapter XIX-C in a case falling under se…
( c ) deducting tax under section 393(2) (Table: Sl. No. 6), (Table: Sl. No. 7), (Tabl…

( 91 ) "recognised provident fund" means a provident fund which has been and continues …
( 92 ) "recognised stock exchange" means a recognised stock exchange as referred to in …
( 93 ) "regular assessment" means the assessment made under section 270(10) or 271 ;
( 94 ) "relative", in relation to an individual, means the husband, wife, brother, sist…
( 95 ) "Reserve Bank of India" means the Bank constituted under section 3(1) of the Res…
( 96 ) "resident" means a person who is resident in India as per section 6 ;
( 97 ) "resulting company" means one or more companies (including a wholly owned subsid…
( 98 ) "scheduled bank" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 2( e )…
( 99 ) "Securities and Exchange Board of India" shall have the same meaning as assigned…
( 100 ) "senior citizen" means an individual resident in India who is of the age of sixt…
( 101 ) ( a ) "short-term capital asset" means a capital asset held by an assessee for n…
( b ) where the capital asset is a—

( i ) security listed in a recognised stock exchange in India; or
( ii ) unit of the Unit Trust of India; or
( iii ) unit of an equity-oriented fund; or
( iv ) zero-coupon bond,

the provisions of sub-clause ( a ) shall have effect, as if for the words "twent…
( c ) in determining the period for which capital asset is held by the assessee,…

( A ) in the case of a share held in a company in liquidation, there shall be excluded…
( B ) there shall be included the period for which—

( I ) the asset was held by the previous owner referred to in section 73(1) (Table: Sl…
( II ) the share or shares in the amalgamating company were held by the assessee, for a…
( III ) the share or shares held in the demerged company were held by the assessee, for …
( IV ) the person was a member of a recognised stock exchange in India immediately befo…
( V ) the person was a member of a recognised stock exchange in India immediately befo…
( VI ) the share or shares were held by the assessee, for a capital asset being a unit …
( VII ) the unit or units in the consolidating scheme of a mutual fund were held by the …
( VIII ) the preference shares were held by the assessee, for a capital asset being equit…
( IX ) the unit or units in the consolidating plan of a mutual fund scheme were held by…
( X ) the original unit or units in the main portfolio were held by the assessee, for …
( XI ) gold was held by the assessee before conversion into the Electronic Gold Receipt…
( XII ) Electronic Gold Receipt was held by the assessee before its conversion into gold…

( C ) there shall be reckoned, the period from—

( I ) the date of its conversion or treatment, for a capital asset referred to in sect…
( II ) the date of allotment of a share or any other security (herein referred to as th…
( III ) the date of the offer of the right to subscribe to any financial asset which is …
( IV ) the date of the allotment of a financial asset allotted without any payment and …
( V ) the date of allotment or transfer of any specified security or sweat equity shar…
( VI ) the date on which a request for the redemption was made, for a capital asset, be…

( D ) for capital assets other than those mentioned in items ( A ) to ( C ), the said …
where,—

( A ) "equity oriented fund" shall have the meaning assigned to it in section 198(8) ;
( B ) "security" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 2( h ) of th…
( C ) "specified security" means the securities as defined in section 2( h ) of the Se…
( D ) "sweat equity shares" means equity shares issued by a company to its employees o…

( 102 ) "short-term capital gain" means capital gains arising from the transfer of a sho…
( 103 ) ( a ) "slump sale" means the transfer of one or more undertaking, by any means, …
( b ) for the purpose of sub-clause ( a )—

( i ) "undertaking" shall have the meaning assigned to it in clause ( 35 )( i ); and
( ii ) the determination of the value of an asset or liability for the sole purpose of …

( 104 ) "Special Economic Zone" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section…
( 105 ) "stamp duty value" means the value adopted or assessed or assessable by any auth…
( 106 ) "tax" means income-tax chargeable under this Act;
( 107 ) "Tax Recovery Officer" means an Income-tax Officer authorised in writing by the …

( a ) the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer; and
( b ) the powers and functions conferred on, or assigned to, an Assessing Officer unde…

( 108 ) "total income" means the total amount of income referred to in section 5 , compu…
( 109 ) "transfer" in relation to a capital asset, includes—

( a ) the sale, exchange or relinquishment of the asset; or
( b ) the extinguishment of any rights therein; or
( c ) the compulsory acquisition thereof under any law in force; or
( d ) where the asset is converted by the owner into, or is treated by him as, stock-i…
( e ) the maturity or redemption of a zero coupon bond; or
( f ) any transaction (whether by way of becoming a member of, or acquiring shares in,…
( g ) any transaction involving the allowing of the possession of any immovable proper…
( h ) disposing of, or parting with, an asset or any interest therein, or creating any…

where, the expression "immovable property" means—

( i ) any land or any building or part of a building, and includes, where any land or …
( ii ) any rights in or with respect to any land or any building or a part of a buildin…

( 110 ) "Valuation Officer" means a person appointed by the Central Government as a Valu…
( 111 ) "virtual digital asset" means—

( a ) any information or code or number or token (not being Indian currency or foreign…
( b ) a non-fungible token or any other token of similar nature, by whatever name call…
( c ) any other digital asset, as the Central Government may, by notification, specify…
( d ) any crypto-asset being a digital representation of value that relies on a crypto…

where,—

( i ) "non-fungible token" means such digital asset as the Central Government may, by …
( ii ) the Central Government may, by notification, exclude any digital asset from this…

( 112 ) "zero coupon bond" means a bond—

( a ) issued by any infrastructure capital company or infrastructure capital fund or i…
( b ) for which no payment and benefit is received or receivable before maturity or re…
( c ) which the Central Government may, by notification, specify,

where, the expression "infrastructure debt fund" means the infrastructure debt f…

1. Sub. by the Act No. 4 of 2026, w.e.f.

1-4-2026

. Prior to its substitution, clause (

32

) read as under :

'( 32 ) "co-operative society" means a co-operative society registered under the Co-oper…

2. Omtt. by the Act No. 4 of 2026, w.e.f.

1-4-2026

. Prior to its omission, sub-clause (

f

) read as under :

'( f ) any payment by a company on purchase of its own shares from a shareholder as per…

3. Sub. by the Act No. 4 of 2026, w.e.f.

1-4-2026

. Prior to its substitution, sub-clause (

v

) read as under :

'( v ) any advance or loan between two group entities, where,—

( A ) one of the group entity is a "Finance Company" or a "Finance Unit"; and
( B ) the parent entity or principal entity of such group is listed on stock exchange …

3a. Items (

II

) and (

III

) sub. for item (

II

) by the Act No. 4 of 2026, w.e.f.

1-4-2026

. Prior to its substitution, item (

II

) read as under :

'( II ) "group entity", "parent entity" and "principal entity" shall be such entities wh…